The place of the house where I spend
most of my time is the basement,
in the office of the basement to be more precise,
but the basement in general.
It’s where I usually work,
I have my photography studio,
all my photography material,
my laptop, a big TV,
there’s also a printer and more,
and also since not so many people come downstairs
I’m a bit more comfortable,
because I can focus more
and also I can listen to music better.
I have the door open in case somebody calls or needs me,
but since I’m with the headphones on...
mostly so I can listen to music and focus a bit more.
It’s not like I’m a stranger here
or that I want to be away from other people,
it’s just that I like to be a bit more isolated
to focus and listen to music.
For me photography is really really important,
since three or four years.
And I would like to have it as a job,
firstly because as any artist I like to express myself
and I do it best through that,
and then also because it’s one of the things
I can do best.
I do it relatively well, I think.
I like it a lot,
I feel a lot of freedom while taking photographs,
I feel very loose.
I don’t know, it’s a bit hard to describe,
but I feel that it’s something that fulfills me.
From all the things I can do,
I think it’s what fulfills me the most.
In this room, the basement,
where I have my photography studio,
the backdrop, I also have the flash,
and on these shelves I have
everything related to photography.
It’s a very big space,
which allows me to move a lot,
and that also helps me and I also have very good lighting.
I can switch off the lights whenever I want,
to have only the flash on.
I can move and change the framing a lot,
and I like that very much.
I’m very comfortable in this room,
especially regarding photography.
For me, it’s important to be isolated.
This room allows me to experiment
with photography and video,
and being isolated is really good for me
because I don’t have so much noise
and I can focus much better.
The imagination flows better.
The way I can isolate myself here,
I really don’t think it’s the same as how
I could be in the attic,
especially regarding space.
Also in the attic the roof has slope,
so except in the center,
you always need to be ducking.
Maybe I would get back ache or something like that.
Also from my point of view,
until we opened the attic
I had no idea that it existed.
However, I’ve always used the basement,
ever since I was little, because
here I had my toys and I played here a lot.
But upstairs, because it was closed until ten years ago
more or less,
when we opened it and refurbished it,
I really had no idea it existed.
After that we started using it everyday for a while,
but then we forgot about it.
It became a storage more than anything, again.
Because the difference of temperature between
summer and winter is very different,
in winter you freeze and
in summer you melt.
And here it happens something similar,
but much more controlled.
So I think it’s the temperature,
and the fact that the basement has been
part of my life for a longer time.
Probably, I wouldn’t live...
if they told me that I would have
the whole basement for me,
as a fully featured home,
I wouldn’t live here mostly
because of the lack of natural light.
Aside from the garage,
the staircase is the only place
where a bit of natural light comes from.
Everywhere else has artificial light.
For example, there’s also no toilet.
To build a kitchen here
would probably be difficult.
To put a bed here isn’t difficult,
because the space is big,
but...
no, not as a full home.
I see this as a studio
and
hobby room for me.
I agree more or less with what my mother said,
because it is true that when we come home,
especially if it’s lunch or dinner time,
we are all together in the kitchen obviously.
And then each of us leaves to a different place,
my mum for example goes to the living room
or the office upstairs,
my dad to his office,
and I go to mine.
And, okay, I think I help my mum in the kitchen
a bit more than she says, but yeah,
she said more or less...
I agree more or less,
if not to a 99% with what she just said.
Sure...
But yeah...
Yes, yes, but...
Privilege.
Yes, sort of...a meeting point, yes.
The area...
We could say that the common area for us is the kitchen...
Normally when we have guests it’s the living room.
But for us living here it’s the kitchen...
Ah okay, I thought you meant Daniel...
Yes, that’s true, we forgot the poor Bimba,
I don’t think that’s fair.
And also I think that as...
as you said, the good thing is that
it’s not only a meeting point
and also where we eat, it’s also
sort of a second leisure room,
because if you can’t watch TV
in the living room you can just watch it here.
For example, I often watch football here
in the kitchen because I can’t in the living room,
because it’s taken, and...that’s it,
or sometimes I watch a show here or...
Or you watch the news here,
which is the usual instead of in the living room.
So...
Yes.
How long are you living here?
We live here 22 years and 6 months.